FRs #1055/1073: Refactor Provider Identification, Host Provider, Invoice Issuer (#1139)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/serviceprovider.md

> # Service Provider

Reviewer: I really do not think we should rename Provider to ServiceProvider and force every customer to change their queries. I don't think this is worth the effort for them. I understand we're changing the definition regardless, but 90%+ of charges have the same service and host org, so the "breaking" impact is <10% in theory. This gets worse when you consider practitioners who have to use different versions of FOCUS together (e.g., 1.0 from AWS/GCP and 1.2 from Microsoft).

Author: The problem that we faced with this is that Host only is not sufficient because of the implicit meaning. We bounced this around multiple times and feel that it is better for us to fix this now with name that doesn't cause conflict with others.

Reviewer: What were the alternatives discussed? Was there a poll? Can you document this in the supporting content?

Reviewer 2: We discussed this point on the TF-3 call today. Here's a quick synopsis:

### Provider Naming Convention Debate

- @flanakin opposed renaming “Provider” due to impact on existing users
  - Concerns about breaking practitioners’ established systems
  - Estimates tens/hundreds of thousands affected users
- @rileyjenk argued current definitions are confusing and ambiguous
  - Multiple practitioner reports of confusion
  - Host provider addition creates naming conflicts
  - Issue originally reported by external member
- Compromise reached: Deprecation approach instead of column rename
  - Deprecate “Provider” and “Publisher” columns (publisher deprecation wasn't contested)
  - Introduce new “Service Provider” and related columns
  - Provides a transition period versus an immediate breaking change for providers and practitioners

> A Service Provider is the entity that makes the [*resources*](#glossary:resource) or [*services*](#glossary:service) available for purchase or consumption.  It is commonly used for cost analysis and reporting scenarios.

Reviewer: This says the ServiceProvider is the org that hosts the Marketplace. I don't think this is the right description. I understand it is trying to convey the org that puts it in the Marketplace, but that's not clear. When I read this, I interpret this as the org that offers the Marketplace, which this is being sold in. While we can debate how it can be read, it's very clear this alone isn't clear enough.

Author: I have added some clarification for marketplace scenarios specifically.

> A Service Provider is the entity that makes the [*resources*](#glossary:resource) or [*services*](#glossary:service) available for purchase or consumption.  It is commonly used for cost analysis and reporting scenarios.

Reviewer 3: To me, this seemed like a clearer version. The second sentence is optional, but I think it adds useful context. 
We might even consider mentioning the ability to acquire resources or services directly or via a CSP Marketplace.

```suggestion
A Service Provider is the entity that provides the  [*resources*](#glossary:resource) or [*services*](#glossary:service) available for usage or purchase. These services can be built on top of infrastructure provided by a [Host Provider](#hostprovider), offered as fully integrated solutions, or include complementary offerings such as support, licensing, or consulting. It is commonly used for cost analysis and reporting scenarios.
```

Author: Took your suggestion.
